The Case against Project Managers - blog post (#2175)
mainmatter/mainmatter.com: src/posts/2023-11-03-the-case-against-project-managers.md

---
title: "The Case against Project Managers"
authorHandle: sarahlorenzu
tags: [startups]
bio: "Sarah Lorenz"
description:

>   "Sarah Lorenz showcases the reasons that make the classic project manager role
>   obsolete for teams."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "Sarah Lorenz explains the reasons not to have a classic project manager role
  and introduces Mainmatter's approach to self-managed teams."
```

meetings, introducing workshop techniques, and promoting effective communication
– all that to enable smoother and more efficient **direct communication between
the project stakeholders**.

## Redefining Iteration Leadership

We further promote the concept of an "iteration lead" role. For each development
iteration (or “sprint” if you will), one team member assumes this role and is
responsible for sourcing and planning the work for the iteration, as well as
ensuring smooth execution. The iteration lead's duties rotate among all team
members unless they choose to opt out. All team members from all stakeholder
groups assuming the iteration lead role regularly ensures that no single
stakeholder group will end up outweighing the others and ensures everyone
communicates with all of the other stakeholders regularly.

## Improved Productivity and Morale

We have seen this evolution of project leadership leading to improved
productivity in many different projects. At the same time, it leads to improved
morale and a less confrontational work environment and overall atmosphere in
project teams.

If you’re interested in establishing the “iteration lead” approach in your own

> team, check out our Playbook or reach out and we’ll be happy to talk.

Reviewer 2: We should add the link that leads to the playbook:  https://mainmatter.com/playbook/
